- I'm receiving an award
for saving that newborn.
- You don't think
you deserve it.
- I don't know.
I mean, maybe?
- Violet, there's no maybe.
- It's not like you have
feelings for me, right?
- Just wanted to make sure
there's no bad blood
for me taking the job
you went for.
- Well, everyone says
you're a good choice.
I have to see for myself.
- You should've vetted
Jason Pelham.
- I did.
- Not with me.
- That firefighter
who got hurt on your call,
she says it's your fault.
- What?
- I think you pressured her
into fabricating a story.
- Can you prove it?
- How bad is it?
- They're recommending
termination.
♪
- Hurry up, kids.
- Okay, all right, I, oh--
watch out.
- Hey, you aren't
the only one who eats cereal.
- Shouldn't you
be buying your own milk?
I'll use as much as I want.
- Oh, so it's
Luke Herrmann's world,
and we're all
just living in it.
- Better than living
in our parents' garage.
- Above the garage.
- Enough!
- Loser.
- Luke!
Hey, you're not
allowed to grow up, okay?
There!
That's to keep you
the same size.
- It's early.
Where are you going?
- They got engine lieutenants
over at the academy today,
and we're learning new
whirlydoos on the rig, so...
I will be in class all day.
♪
It feels strange stepping in as
active lieutenant for a shift.
Especially considering
what's happening with Pelham.
- Pelham's situation
isn't on you.
And if the position
does become permanent...
maybe it's fate.
- I do feel more nervous
than I thought I would, though.
- Hey, no reason for nerves.
- Well, there is, um, there's
one key element from you
that always helps.
♪
- I think we'd get in trouble
if we did that here.
- Yes.
Yes, um, well, there is that.
But there is also that
one magic phrase that you say
in that magical Kelly way.
- You got this, Stella Kidd.
♪
- Hey.
This is not a done deal.
Still a lot
that needs to happen.
Commissioner needs
to review the findings
of the disciplinary committee.
Union is considering an appeal.
- Look, all due respect,
we both know
these are just formalities.
Otherwise, I'd be
in my station gear right now.
- I refuse to accept that,
Pelham.
I'm out there.
Rattling cages, working
my way up the chain of command.
I will not let this go
until you get a fair shake.
- Chief...
I appreciate
all that you're doing.
But you don't wanna get
dragged down with me.
This isn't your fight.
- The hell it isn't.
♪
- Truck 81, Squad 3.
Ambulance 61.
Multiple trapped victims.
Halstead and Roosevelt.
♪
- We're first in, Lieutenant.
The scene is yours.
- Fire Department.
Make way, make way.
- Excuse us.
- Excuse me, guys.
Thank you.
- Mouch,
make sure the power's cut off.
What happened?
- Something broke,
and everybody came flying down.
There's somebody else
hurt up top.
This poor lady.
- Okay, okay.
Truck, I'm going up top.
- Copy.
- Just wait at the wall
over there.
- Make way, step back.
Step back.
All right, I got her.
Truck, handle the victims
at the bottom.
- Copy.
- We're gonna need more ambos.
61 to main,
we need an EMS Plan One.
- Copy that, 61.
- We're gonna get you out.
No!
- All right.
-
Please, help me.
- Squad, you got this.
I'm going back down.
- Copy.
- All right, easy, easy, easy.
Take it easy.
Try to stop moving.
Don't touch.
Okay, I need you to lean back.
- Need hands?
- Got it.
-
Oh, my God!
- All right.
Capp, Tony.
Bring in cribbing, tool bag,
and a cutoff saw.
Double time.
Let's go, move.
- All right,
what are we looking at?
- We got a foot
caught in the steps,
hands trapped
between these two stairs,
and this guy here.
- I'm okay.
I just can't get up.
- All right.
Gallo, you take this guy.
Mouch, you take her.
Let's get this guy out of here.
- Let's try
to peel back his shoulder.
- There you go.
- Thank you.
- Halligan.
- Thanks.
- All right, sir, we're gonna
try to peel back this stair
about an inch or two to see
if we can pry your foot free.
- Hang on!
Gallo,
if we move the stairs down
here, the gears move up top.
Severide, can you stabilize
the drive gears for me?
I need to move this step.
- Copy that.
Cruz.
- We're good to go up here.
- Go for it.
♪
-
- Here.
- Hey, Capp, Tony,
cribbing first.
Stay in the corner, all right?
♪
-
- All right, there we go.
- Okay, that hand.
Good.
- Step right here.
- There you go.
- Okay.
All right, one second.
Sit tight.
- I got you.
Come on.
- Pull this up.
Good?
-
Okay.
Ah.
Oh, all right.
-
- Okay.
Got that?
Okay.
Turn you over.
All right.
Coming up.
- Okay.
Watch it.
- Yeah.
- All right, all right.
Medic!
- Yeah.
Coming through.
- She's got a laceration
on her left arm.
Keep the pressure on it.
All right, Truck, I'm goin'
up top to help out Squad.
- Yep.
- I'm gonna grab a stair chair.
- Copy.
- Thank you.
All right.
♪
- Move back.
- All right.
Get that.
-
- Hang on, hang on, we got you.
- Okay, that's it.
We got you, we got you.
-
- Hang in there.
- Watch her legs,
watch her legs.
- Easy.
- It's okay, ma'am.
We'll get you to Med.
♪
Hope I wasn't too pushy.
- No.
It's fun
taking orders from you.
♪
- Okay, Truck, back it up.
- That was
some smooth operating
out there, Lieutenant.
- That was a great team effort.
- But you took command
like a natural.
- Thanks, guys.
Hey.
Any update on your status?
- Nah.
No change.
- Hey, I heard
the guys coming in.
It sounds like
you kicked ass out there.
- Thanks, Pelham.
Hey, and just so you know,
I am not gunnin' for your spot.
-
- It's rightfully yours.
- I don't know about that.
Even when I was interim here,
I heard the way everyone
at 51 talked about you.
Respected you.
It was intimidating,
knowing how much
they wanted you back here
so you could
take over on Truck.
Look, forget what led
to the spot opening up again.
You have already more than
earned the right to fill it.
♪
Thanks.
- Well, the gala is
officers only this year.
- I forgot
all about the CFD gala.
- First year since COVID,
and they cut out the working
stiffs and the regular Joes.
Have to keep the numbers
down because of restrictions.
- You seem upset.
- Let's just say
I do not like elitism.
- You know
what they did in "Footloose"
when the parents
cancelled the prom?
- Whoa, what's "Footloose?"
- They held their own prom.
- Ooh, are you
talking about an alt gala?
You know,
something younger, cooler,
no suits required?
'Cause I could get behind that.
- Oh, honestly,
I am loving this idea.
- Okay, everyone, take a seat.
- Herrmann,
we're startin' back up.
- Yeah.
- You would not
believe how much of my day
has been taken up by this gala.
I can give you two minutes,
Chief.
- Thank you.
Do you mind if we--
- I'm not interested
in relitigating
the Pelham investigation,
if that's why you're here.
- No, no.
I'm here to suggest
a different investigation...
into Chief Kilbourne.
I have strong reason to suspect
that Kilbourne
is behind the allegations
against Jason Pelham,
that he exerted undue influence
onto the injured firefighter
who made the accusations.
- You ever get
that sinking feeling
when someone
starts his sentence with
"You know I love you, but?"
Well, Chief,
you know I love you, but...
you're not doing yourself
any favors here.
- Hmm.
- Since your promotion,
you've strong-armed me
into moving your headquarters.
And you've resuscitated
the flagging career
of a lieutenant who's since
gotten a firefighter injured
through negligence.
- Allegedly.
- And now you want me
to launch a witch hunt
against a deputy district chief.
- I am just asking you
to look into it.
Talk with this young woman.
Establish a timeline of when--
- It's over for Pelham,
Chief.
♪
- Her position
could not have been more final.
Jason Pelham is a lost cause,
as far as she's concerned.
- Look, I don't know
Sara McBride that well,
but I could certainly go back
and try to talk
some sense into her.
- Yeah, but Deputy Commissioner
won't go up against Kilbourne.
What are the chances
you can convince McBride
to turn on him?
- Kilbourne wields too much
influence within the CFD.
- Maybe we need someone
who isn't in the CFD anymore.
Someone who's got nothing
to lose.
The--the officer Pelham decked.
What's his name?
- What, Captain Stafford?
- Yes, didn't you say
that he was upset about how
Pelham's career got stalled?
So maybe he'd like
a chance to make amends.
♪
- And we just blast word
that all non-officers
in our district are invited?
- Yep!
- Mouch said we could have
Molly's Patio for free.
- 'Cause Herrmann
is gonna be at the gala.
- Exactly,
he said if we file
a permit with the city,
we can get a live band.
- Did you say live band?
- Um--
- Look.
These kids down the street from
me--they play in their garage.
They aren't half bad.
I could probably talk them
into taking the gig.
- What kind of music?
- What do you like?
- Glass Animals, Inhaler,
Twenty One Pilots...
- Yep, they do all that.
I'll hook it up.
- Um...
I'm gonna, um, go figure out
what that's all about.
- We might need
an alt-alt party.
- Yes.
- Hey.
You a firefighter?
- Oh, uh, I'm not.
But my brother was.
His name was John Graham.
- I knew John.
The Whitman fire.
A sad day
for all of us at the CFD.
♪
Your brother was a real hero.
- He was mine.
That's for sure.
- So you visiting
from out of town?
- Oh, no, I live here, no.
Come by once a month, and uh,
spend a day or two with him.
- That's nice.
- Yeah.
Two years before that fire,
I was stationed overseas.
Motorpool in Germany.
You know how time goes by
when you think you have
all of it in the world?
- I do.
- It was like that.
I-I mean,
the last thing on my mind
is that
I'd never see my brother again.
♪
Anyways...
He loved thriller novels.
Used to rip right through them
before he'd pass them on to me.
So I, um, I come here.
I read a book
all the way through.
It makes me feel like he's
sitting right here next to me.
- I'm Christopher.
- Todd.
- Glad to know you, Todd.
- You too.
- Um, I gotta get back
to this training session.
Can I get you
a cup of coffee or something?
- No, I'm--I'm good.
Thank you.
♪
Fair enough.
- Chief Boden.
- Kilbourne.
What's all this?
- We're just touring
some of the firehouses.
Doin' a quick assessment
of the resource distribution.
- Hope you don't mind
a surprise visit.
We won't be in your hair long.
- Not a problem.
- You have time to give us
a quick walk-through?
- Of course.
Why don't we start
in the bunk room
and then
we'll work our way south?
Kilbourne,
what the hell is all this?
- Like the man said.
A routine assessment
of resource distribution.
- Don't take me for a fool.
- Chief, you gotta believe me
when I say
I got nothing against you.
What's past is past.
Why don't we try a fresh start?
Me and you.
We're on the same team.
♪
- Stella Kidd?
- Yes, sir.
- Chief Kilbourne.
Don Kilbourne.
Heard a lot about you.
- You have?
- Sure.
In fact, just today,
I heard you really handled
yourself with
that grizzly escalator
incident.
- Oh.
Well, 51 has a great team.
- Keep up the good work.
I got my eye on you.
- Is that Kilbourne?
- Oh, yeah.
What is he doing here?
- Attempting to assert
his dominance.
- I do not like that at all.
- You heard back
from Stafford yet?
- A few minutes ago.
I had to let it
go to voicemail.
- You better call him back.
He's our last hope.
- Yeah.
♪
- Okay, I've got a hookup
at a club called Clover.
It's right down
the street from Molly's.
I think they'll give us
the back room.
- Sweet.
- And we just spread the word
only to the young
firefighters group.
- Exactly.
We'll keep it all chill
until we can break away,
and go to the--
- Are you planning
an alt-alt party?
- What?
- No.
- The alt party
is gonna be so much fun.
I'm lining up a pizza oven.
- Brett!
Archie says live band is a go!
- You can't ghost
the alt party!
- Thanks for coming, Stafford.
Buy you a coffee?
- No, I'm good.
So what's this all about?
- Our friend, Jason Pelham.
You hear
about his latest troubles?
They gave him
his walking papers.
- You're kidding.
- Young firefighter
got hurt on a call.
She's blaming him for it.
So I understand you're pretty
close with Chief Kilbourne.
- I haven't really kept up
with anyone from the CFD,
but yeah.
Me and him were tight once.
He was there
when both my sons were born.
Why?
- I believe
he pressured this young woman
into fabricating this story.
Does that sound like
something he'd be capable of?
- Yes.
In fact,
it's kind of his patented move.
- Would you
be willing to tell that
to Deputy Commissioner Hill?
- Wow.
It's kind of a big ask, Chief.
- I know.
But as I recall, you owe
Jason Pelham a big favor.
♪
- Admit it.
You're loving
being in the catbird seat.
- It's fun.
Yeah.
- Feels right, doesn't it?
- Yeah, it feels right.
- You belong there, Stella.
When I was talking to Pelham
about the lieutenant's spot,
he was so supportive of me.
Even with all the hell
that he's going through?
You know,
you were right.
He's a great guy.
- He's catching a bad break.
- Yeah.
I can't help
but think about how
you've always been at my side.
Boden pullin' for me.
In fact, everyone at 51.
Meanwhile, Pelham's been
making his way solo
for the last few years.
Nobody doin' that for him.
Not even if he deserved it.
- Squad 3, Ambulance 61.
Person injured.
22511 South Troy.
♪
- It's my husband, Jeff!
He was getting
down from the truck.
- Oh, honey.
- They're here, they're here.
It's okay.
-
The ring.
I-I jumped down.
I got caught on the truck.
♪
- We're gonna have
to get this ring off.
- Yeah, and fast,
or circulation
goes all together.
- Ring cutter kit?
- Yeah.
- No, no.
You--you can't cut the ring!
I--uh, the-there's got
to be a way to slide it off.
- Sliding it would
cause further degloving,
and you could risk
losing your finger.
- Are you crazy?
Let them cut the ring!
- It's not just a ring, Deb!
It's the symbol
of the last 30 years...
of me being
the luckiest guy in Chicago.
- Aw.
Cut the damn ring off now.
- All right, we're gonna give
you some pain medication, Jeff.
Just hang in there.
- Okay.
♪
- Hey Jeff, hold still.
- Oh, yeah, yeah.
Oh, God.
♪
Ow!
Ah! Ow, ow, ah!
- Oh, thank God!
- I-I want the ring
even if it's in pieces.
Oh.
- Thank you so much.
- Deb, you can ride with us
in the ambulance.
- Oh, thanks.
But I've gotta feed Taj,
our cat, and finish
an email to my niece.
I'll see you at the hospital
in an hour or so.
Okay, honey?
- Huh, yeah, okay.
See you there.
♪
- Hey, what'd he say?
- Come on in.
I was just telling Kidd.
Stafford confirmed it.
Kilbourne has done
this kind of thing before.
The problem now is getting
Stafford in front of D.C. Hill.
And I have...
worn out my welcome.
- If only somebody here had
a close, personal relationship
with the deputy commissioner.
- I would be more than happy
to cash in my chit
if you think it will help.
- I think it's our only option.
- Yeah.
All right.
- Deputy Commissioner
Hill's office.
- Yes, hi.
I know the deputy commissioner
is a very busy woman,
but could she spare just 30
seconds to talk to Stella Kidd?
- Please hold a moment.
Ms. Kidd?
- Yes, hi!
- D.C. Hill says she's done
talking about Jason Pelham
with you or anyone else.
Thanks for calling.
- Okay, but hold on.
Wait, wait, uh--
Oh, nobody hangs up
on Stella Kidd.
- I'm not an expert
on etiquette,
but how long do we have to be
at the alt party
before we can duck out,
and go to the alt-alt party?
- Twenty minutes.
Yeah, long enough for Brett
to see us, buy her a drink,
tell her how raging
her party is, and then...
Ghost world.
-
Damn.
- Hey, stick with me, kid.
- Hey, um, bad news.
I can't go to the alt party
or the alt-alt party.
- Why not?
- I got invited
to the actual gala.
The, um, award
I got a couple weeks ago--
they're honoring me
and like five other recipients
at the event.
The email said
my attendance is mandatory.
- Well, that's great, I guess.
The honor, I mean.
- Yeah, but I'd much rather
alt party with you two.
- Oh, why don't you hit
the gala, get kudos, whatever,
and then meet us at Clover's?
I'm sure we're gonna go late.
- Yeah.
- That's an excellent idea.
- Hmm.
- Gallo.
I need you
in the briefing room.
Where's Mouch?
- Where do you think?
- Mouch.
Briefing room.
♪
- What's going on, Kidd?
- This is an emergency meeting
of Truck 81.
So sit down.
Listen up.
- This about Lieutenant Pelham?
- Yep.
One of our own
is being railroaded.
And the brass won't
even hear the evidence.
They are letting bureaucracy
and status quo
get in the way of what's right.
- So messed up.
- It is.
Which is why
we're gonna make them listen.
All right?
We're gonna take a stand.
Right after shift, we are going
down to headquarters
as a show of force.
- Bold gesture.
I love it.
- No, I am not
talking about a gesture.
I'm talking about real action
to help Pelham.
It's the same
that we'd do for him
if the roof came down,
and his PASS alarm went off.
It's the same that--that
he would do for any of us.
I'm talking about putting it
all on the line.
So think hard
before you tell me are you in
or you out.
♪
- I'm in.
- Me too. Absolutely.
♪
- All right.
- I told Mom I needed
the car for tomorrow night.
- She didn't check with me,
and I'm already using it.
- You're such an ass-wipe
about literally everything.
Just taking up my space, when
you should have your own car,
and your own apartment
somewhere else.
- Hey!
Do you know how lucky
you are to have each other,
and how stupid you're acting?
- Dad, he doesn't even--
- No, no, no!
Shut up and listen.
I met a guy today who lost
his brother 12 years ago.
And do you know what he does?
He sits up at the fire academy
next to his brother's
bronze boots
every month and reads a book,
just so he can
feel close to him.
♪
And I gotta come home,
and listen to my two kids
sound like absolute jerks
to each other.
And it makes me
sick to my stomach!
♪
God, you heard all that?
Maybe it wasn't
the best way to handle it,
and, yes.
I might be
the worst father ever.
♪
- Mouch, Gallo.
Hurry it up.
- Psst, Stella.
Hey.
You sure about this?
I mean, I gotta ask.
Is now a good time to paint
a target on your back,
right when
you're moving up the ladder?
- What is the point of taking
a stand if you only do it
when it's safe and convenient?
I pity anyone who makes the
mistake of getting in your way.
Go get 'em.
- Truck 81.
Let's move out.
♪
Deputy Commissioner.
- What's going on here?
- Lieutenant Jason Pelham
won't be needing this anymore.
So we thought
you should have it.
And if you're taking his,
you should take mine too.
Because I can't work here
with a clear conscience
knowing that
this is how a hero,
a part of my family,
is treated.
- Kidd--
- You can have mine too.
- And mine.
♪
- What is it you want, Kidd?
- Five minutes of your time.
♪
- This is Will Stafford,
retired captain of the CFD.
You're gonna want
to hear what he has to say.
♪
- Hey, Sara.
Can we come in?
- How's the shoulder?
- Getting much better, thanks.
But that's not why you're here.
- No.
- Sara...
you are looking at two women
who have worked our way up
through the CFD ranks.
In D.C. Hill's case,
all the way to the top.
So we know all the challenges
and double standards
that come
at female firefighters.
It's one of the reasons
I started Girls on Fire.
- It can feel like the deck
is always stacked against you.
Make you scared
to stick your neck out.
But we had to decide
early in our careers
what kind of firefighter
we were going to be.
That's where you are now.
Are you going
to be a woman of principle,
willing to fight
some tough battles
to prove your strength
and your worth?
Or are you going
to keep your head down,
avoid conflict, and let
yourself get pushed around?
Because once you go down that
road, there's no going back.
♪
- Dad?
I just--um,
we wanted to say that
we get on each other's nerves,
but we do love each other.
- It's true.
He takes up too much space,
but I might actually miss him
when he moves out--
if he ever does.
- That guy at the academy...
he made
a real impression on you.
- Yeah, he did.
- Then we'd like to meet him.
- You think he's still there?
- Maybe we could all go.
♪
- Go grab your jackets.
Hey, you sure you
don't want to go to the gala?
- I'm sure.
You know what?
You might actually be
the best father ever.
♪
- You guys having fun?
Everyone having fun?
- Yeah.
- Nobody's thinking
about leaving, right?
Don't leave.
Seriously, don't leave.
- Uh-uh, no.
- Hey, how y'all doin' tonight?
- Whoo!
- We're Jackson
Doesn't Like Bananas,
and we're ready to rock!
- ♪ You said "You're fake,"
and I said, "No way!" ♪
♪ You can't make me stay
♪ You said, "It's late,"
and I said, "No way!" ♪
♪ You can't make me stay
♪ Not going there instead,
not going there instead. ♪
♪ You can't make me stay.
- Yo, you wanna stay?
- Uh, yeah,
I'm not missing this.
- Yeah, I'll text Vi,
and tell her we're here.
- ♪ You can't make me stay
- Mikami!
Come drink with us.
- This looks like a good spot.
- Yeah.
- Can he see us?
- He can see us.
- Hmm.
- Here he comes.
- See?
Good spot.
- Boden?
- Chief Kilbourne.
I don't think you've met
my lieutenant, Kelly Severide.
- What's this garbage
I'm hearing
about your firefighters
making a scene at headquarters?
- I think maybe we oughtta step
out into the hallway, Chief.
- Anything you have to say
to me, you can say right here.
- Trust me,
you want this conversation
to happen in private.
-
Okay.
♪
Gloria?
What are you doing out here?
What is all this?
- Sara McBride
rescinded her statement.
- Who?
- Don't get cute with me,
Chief.
She now says it wasn't
Lieutenant Pelham's fault.
- Okay?
Why are we interrupting a party
to have this conversation?
- Because I'm placing you
on administrative leave,
effective immediately,
pending an investigation into
McBride's fraudulent statement,
and several other similar cases
that have
recently come to light.
- This is...
I don't--
- We'll leave you both to it.
- Thank you, Chief.
All of you.
Enjoy the party.
- Oh, we will.
♪
Hey, why--why are
we coming out here?
It's--it's freezing.
Look!
Ugh, thank you.
Mm.
- I was blown away
by what you did for Pelham.
It was brave and beautiful
and strong...
- Yeah?
- And...
despite what
some other guy said yesterday,
I am actually
the luckiest man in Chicago.
♪
- Oh.
Hi.
- Hi.
- Yeah.
- You look great.
- So do you.
♪
- Think you have
the wrong address for the gala.
- No.
This is where the party's at.
'Cause Boden wants you
to report for duty
at Firehouse 51 next shift.
♪
Kilbourne's out.
You're in.
- Uh...
how?
- You're a part of 51, Pelham.
We got your back.
♪